doc/index.rst, before:

.. RTC-Tools documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Jul 13 15:02:02 2016.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. highlight:: python

.. image:: images/logo.png
	:align: right
	:scale: 50%

RTC-Tools documentation
=======================

This is the documentation for RTC-Tools, the `Deltares
<https://www.deltares.nl/>`_ toolbox for control and optimization of
environmental systems.

Visit the `RTC-Tools website <https://oss.deltares.nl/web/rtc-tools/home>`_
for a general product description and information on available services.

This first chapter covers getting the software running on your computer.  The
subsequent two chapters describe the RTC-Tools Python API.  The fourth and final
chapter discusses several illustrative examples, including the use of goal
programming for multi-objective optimization, as well as the use of forecast
ensembles.


Contents
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   getting-started
   optimization
   simulation
   examples


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Update documentation to reflect applications in water and energy
Signed-off-by: Jorn Baayen <jorn.baayen@portfolioenergy.com>

doc/index.rst, after:

.. RTC-Tools documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Jul 13 15:02:02 2016.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. highlight:: python

.. image:: images/logo.png
	:align: right
	:scale: 50%

RTC-Tools documentation
=======================

RTC-Tools is an open-source platform for the operational optimization of
portfolios of assets, in particular storage assets such as hydropower
reservoirs and battery energy storage systems (BESS). RTC-Tools is part of
`LF Energy <https://lfenergy.org/>`_.

In water management, RTC-Tools is used for model-predictive control of water
systems including turbines, pumps, weirs, and reservoirs.

In power trading, the RTC-Tools project aims to move the field of trading
optimization towards increased transparency, increased code-reuse, and
higher trading value capture.

The RTC-Tools project was originally initiated at `Deltares <https://www.deltares.nl/>`_
and is deployed for water and power trading applications across the globe,
across North and South America, Europe, Asia, and Australia.

For applications in water management, `Deltares <https://www.deltares.nl/>`_ offers
commercial support.

For applications in power trading, `PortfolioEnergy <https://www.portfolioenergy.com/>`_
offers commercial support.

This first chapter of this documentation covers getting the software running on your
computer.  The subsequent two chapters describe the RTC-Tools Python API.  The fourth
and final chapter discusses several illustrative examples, including the use of goal
programming for multi-objective optimization, as well as the use of forecast
ensembles.


Contents
========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   getting-started
   optimization
   simulation
   examples
   related-projects


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`
